
#### **Montréal Quantum Photonics Seminar Series**

📍 Pavillon Lassonde M-2401, Polytechnique Montréal <br>
🗓️ Monday, September 18th/2023 <br>
🕜 14:00 hr <br>

#### *Quantum information in the time-domain*
#### Sho Onoe
Department of Engineering Physics, Polytechnique Montréal


**Abstract:** Electro-optic sampling (EOS) is a nonlinear sensing technique in ultrafast photonics which can be utilized to sample properties of terahertz-to-mid-infrared (THz-MIR) electric field state on subcycle timescales by means of its interaction with a strong coherent near-infrared (NIR) probe pulse. The ability to field-resolve at sub-cycle timescale established EOS as one of the most reliable classical time-domain sensing techniques in the MIR band. We summarize the progress of transposing this technique into the quantum domain, focusing on a variant of EOS we proposed for the detection of both field quadratures simultaneously. However and similar to the standard homodyne detection, our proposed technique fails to measure correlations between different times. To resolve this, we design yet another variant which obtains the full quantum information within a given space-time volume via what we refer to as quantum dispersive EOS.

**Bio:** Dr. Sho Onoe received his PhD at the University of Queensland, Australia, working with Prof. Timothy Ralph on the topic of relativistic quantum information (RQI). In 2022, Dr. Onoe joined the group of Prof Denis Seletskiy at Polytechnique Montreal, Canada, to focus on the quantum field detection methods with the aim to proposing novel experimental strategies for RQI.

**Contact**: nicolas.quesada@polymtl.ca
