
📍 Pavillon J.-Armand-Bombardier 1035, Polytechnique Montréal <br>
🗓️ Monday, September 25th/2023 <br>
🕜 13:00 hr <br>

### *Electro-optic spectral shaping of single-photon pulses*
### Filip Sośnicki
#### University of Warsaw

**Abstract:** One of the essential tasks in the ﬁeld of quantum optics is the ability to fully control
single photons, meaning controlling them in all degrees of freedom (DoF). While many
experiments demonstrated control of single photons in polarization or transverse-spatial
mode, one still requires methods for unitary, phase-only manipulation in the time-frequency
DoF. In my presentation, I will show a technique for shaping single photons in time and
spectrum by employing electro-optic phase modulation (time lenses) combined with dispersive
propagation. I will show our recent results on tuning single-photon’s center wavelength and
spectral bandwidth. I will primarily focus on using photonically generated RF signals, achieving
very high modulation stability in 24 hours. I will also show employing complex phase
modulation patterns for spectrally compressing single photons by more than two orders of
magnitude down to hundreds of MHz of spectral width.

**Bio:** Filip Sośnicki is a researcher at the Faculty of Physics at the University of Warsaw, where he works at the Quantum Photonics Lab led by Dr. Michał Karpiński. There, in 2016, he graduated with an MSc (with distinction) in the theoretical physics by numerically studying electro-optic time lensing of light. Later, in 2023, he defended his doctoral thesis (with distinction) on the topic of coherent shaping of quantum light pulses in the spectro-temporal degree of freedom by developing an electro-optic experimental platform for time lensing.

**Contact:** nicolas.quesada@polymtl.ca