
#### **Montréal Quantum Photonics Seminar Series**

📍 , Polytechnique Montréal <br>
🗓️ Thursday, February 22nd/2024 <br>
🕜 15:30 <br>

#### *Generation and characterization of high-dimensional quantum states*
#### Marco Liscidini
Department of Physics, University of Pavia, Italy.


**Abstract:** High-dimensional quantum states are desirable for studying complex quantum systems and developing quantum technologies. Yet, their implementation can be challenging as it is their characterization. In the first part of this talk, I will focus on recent progress in generating high-dimensional quantum states in photonic circuits. I will show how this approach can make the implementation of large quantum states flexible and scalable by exploiting the intrinsic advantages of integrated devices. In the second part of the talk, I will deal with the more general problem of characterizing large quantum systems. Specifically, I will present some recent results on the study of multi-qubit systems using *threshold quantum state tomography*, which can significantly reduce the number of measurements necessary to reconstruct the whole state density matrix.

**Bio:** Marco Liscidini received a Ph.D. degree in physics from the University of Pavia (Italy) in 2006. From 2007 to 2009, he was a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Department of Physics of the University of Toronto, Canada. He is currently an Associate Professor at the Department of Physics of the University of Pavia, and he serves as a technical advisor to Xanadu Quantum Technologies Inc., Toronto, Canada. He is a member of the advisory council of the National Quantum Science and Technology Institute of Italy. His research activity is focused on the theoretical study and modelling of the light-matter interaction in micro- and nano-structures. He works in several areas of photonics, including classical and quantum nonlinear optics, spontaneous emission, plasmon and QW-exciton polaritons, optical sensing and bio-sensing, and photovoltaic effects. His theoretical research activity is in strong collaboration with experimental groups and in the framework of European, US, and Canadian research programs. He is a Fellow of Optica.

**Contact**: nicolas.quesada@polymtl.ca
