---
layout: post
title: Unbox Podcast (Part 1)
subtitle: Talking to Ratik about getting into design
tags: misc
thumbnail: https://gyanl.com/assets/thumbs/default.png
date modified: 07-03-2022
---

This is Part 1 of the podcast. Find [Part 2 here](/unbox-2).

<iframe src="https://anchor.fm/unboxpod/embed/episodes/Do-your-extra-curriculars--Kids--Part-1-e45bg5/a-ag4je0" height="102px" width="400px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

#### Gyan 

Hi and welcome to Unbox. This is Gyan, I'm interviewing Ratik today. 

#### Ratik 


###### **Intro music**<br>‣ 3005 by Childish Gambino

#### Ratik 

Hello hello hello. 

Welcome to episode four of the unbox broadcast and also welcome to summer. It's officially May, and the temperatures are rising every day here in Delhi. So yeah, we're we're officially in summer and summer brings an interesting challenge for podcasters, especially with the setup I have, which is not really a setup, but you can't have fans running when you record episodes with guests because the mic catches the fan noise and I don't want to give you that to listen to and as a result the episode for this month was recorded without the fan with both me and the guest being all sweaty. I guess it was more intimate in a way. 

We're moving quickly on from that pathetic joke this month we have Gyan Lakhwani on the show Ganso, very dear friend and he is also a self taught designer, specifically working. He is worked in UI and UX. For people who don't know UI user interface design and UX is user experience design, so designing what something looks visually and then designing the experience of that thing. Basically, you'll probably understand more when we go deep into it later in the episode. That was like a quick intro. 

#### Ratik 

So apart from UI UX stuff, he's also worked on like conventional graphic design stuff. 

#### Ratik 

So logos, branding. And that sort of thing he is currently studying interaction design at ID Bombay. So we talk about that in this episode and how it feels for him to actually formally study design after being self taught. So that's something we'll go into. 

#### Ratik 

Another thing we'll talk about began is his wealth of freelancing experience. Because he's done a lot of freelancing and earned a fair amount of money, so we'll be going into like his tips and tricks for you. So if you're somebody wants to get into freelancing. In, in in. 

Any in any sort of sphere or career it need not needn't be just design freelancing. 

Interestingly enough, this month episode is that it's going to be in two parts, so so that's because I thought that the observer is a bit too long and episodes in general. 

I've been getting longer and I don't really like long podcasts, so I decided to split this month's episode into two parts. Although don't worry, they're both gonna be outs. 

Together so you can listen to the first part, which is this and then just go and start the second one immediately. 

#### Ratik 

If you want or if you want to listen to it later, you can. 

#### Ratik 

Do that too. 

#### Ratik 

In terms of what the two parts will contain. 

#### Ratik 

So the way I'm trying to break this is the first part will be just Gyan's journey and from like 11th 12th grade. 

To learning design and picking up a few internships and his freelancing work and then the second part will be more specific to to his Masters degree. 

And finally yeah recommendations. 

Second part has recommendations, which is the recurring segment on the show. 

So yeah, don't miss that. 

And once again they'll both be out, so you can go and listen to the second one right after this. 

And I think that covers everything that I had to say in the intro. 

So yes, let's get into part one. 

#### Ratik 

Got it. 

#### Ratik 

But all right, let's let's start the show. 

#### Ratik 

Hi Gyan, thanks. For coming on. Welcome to unbox. 

#### Ratik 

How how you been like you're in Delhi for a couple of days. 

#### Ratik 

How how's life, how's Deli? 

#### Ratik 

How's the heat treating you? 

#### Gyan 

The heat is terrible, but it was quite bad in Bombay also. 

#### Ratik 

So yeah, you were mentioning, I think before we started recording that the last two days where you would in Bombay was heat was pretty bad. 

#### Ratik 

So I think a good way. To transition into Delhi. 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, from one smelly underarm pit of a city to another. 

#### Ratik 

OK. 

#### Ratik 

Just maybe then start with like a quick intro. 

#### Ratik 

Like who you are, what you're doing, what your interests you have like 12 seconds go. 

#### Gyan 

Hey everyone, my name is Gyan. I'm an interaction designer. I largely work on designing apps and websites and I'm currently doing my Masters and interaction design at IDC School of Design at IIT Bombay. 

#### Ratik 

So how would? 

#### Ratik 

You this is something out of curiosity. How do you define what interaction design is? Because I've definitely heard of what UI UX design is. 

#### Ratik 

Uh, But interaction design is something that I've only recently started hearing. 

#### Gyan 

So interaction designers anytime, anytime a person interacts with technology, how do you make that interaction as smooth as possible? 

#### Gyan 

And so you're not the only one. 

#### Gyan 

I mean, each time I say I'm doing a masters in interaction design to anyone, I kind of have to explain what it is. 

#### Gyan 

So my my favorite way to put it is so you know how your bank, website and app is. Kind of terrible but pay TM is pretty good. Yeah, or how? When you try and book a train through the IRCTC website, it's kind of terrible. But if you try and do it through, say Makemytrip, it's a lot nicer. 

#### Gyan 

That's basically there. 

#### Ratik 

That's that's interaction design, so would you say like it's a combination of both UI and UX? 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, definitely. It involves interface design experience design. There's a lot of research component to it. There's also hardware. You can also have interaction design for hardware devices, so it's not just digital screens. 

Oh, OK. 

#### Ratik 

Oh nice, so it's like a pretty broad term then. 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, I mean these days you'd even consider Aaron VR and designing for. 

#### Gyan 

For natural language interfaces, part of interaction designs. 

#### Ratik 

Got it, got it. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah makes sense. 

#### Ratik 

Great so this is like I haven't really heard a lot of people doing masters in design, especially in India like I hear a lot of people doing as in they go to like colleges. 

#### Ratik 

XST or an ID and they study like bachelors there. 

#### Ratik 

Masters is like something I've only heard from. 

#### Ratik 

You so maybe we can like dive deeper into what led you? 

#### Ratik 

There in a. 

#### Ratik 

So maybe we start as we can just start with this section. 

#### Ratik 

I like to call the origin story section of the podcast. 

#### Ratik 

So how did you even end up in design? Is this like a thing you picked up in school or later on? 

#### Ratik 

Maybe you can. 

#### Ratik 

I just start talking about 11th and 12th grade, maybe So what was what? 

#### Ratik 

Was that like for? 

#### Gyan 

You 11th and 12th was a pretty confusing time because I took commerce in 11th and. Yeah, what I really wanted to do was computer science and I think you talked about this in another podcast. 

#### Gyan 

There is no way you can take computer science in India unless you take. 

#### Gyan 

Essentially, PCM, physics, chemistry, math and I do OK at math and terrible at physics and chemistry. 

#### Gyan 

So I mean I did OK till 10th. 

#### Gyan 

But when I'm just 11th and 12th was hard so I took PCM for a while. Didn't work for me. So I shifted to commerce. 

#### Gyan 

And then. A year into it, I realized that I was really hated that also, and so there is this there. There is this idea that commerce is easier than science, and I feel like it's that's really not the case. 

#### Gyan 

It's more of what you have an aptitude for, and I felt I had an aptitude for. So if if I had to take my pic, I would have taken English psychology, computer science. I don't know, maybe history and but that was just not a choice I could make. 

#### Ratik 

Dude, definitely agree. 

#### Ratik 

With this like. 

#### Ratik 

I think about this a lot, especially nowadays 'cause my brother is picking his subjects the system so rigid here and you don't really have a choice to explorer option, just kind of have to. 

#### Ratik 

Take one thing and see if it works, that sort of thing. 

#### Ratik 

So your experience is like completely valid I think, and it's it's hard and what you said about commerce. 

#### Ratik 

I do believe that I had a good time with science because I wanted to take science, but I don't think I would have coped with something like commerce or humanities. 

#### Ratik 

But then also I'd never tried them so maybe I would have been fine. 

With them 

#### Gyan 

But here's the thing, because I realized that I didn't like commerce either towards the end of 11th. I had this conversation with my mom, where I told her that I just felt like he was going wrong and this is just not something that was. 

#### Gyan 

For me and then she said she took me more seriously than I expected her to honestly, but we went and talked to the school about whether it was possible for me to repeat a year and do 11th in science this time. 

#### Gyan 

But a couple of the teachers who knew me told my mom that listen, if you drop here. That that's usually not a great experience for anyone, because you see, all your friends go go ahead. 

#### Gyan 

So what you can do is just try and. 

#### Gyan 

Skip 11th and go to 12th in science. 

#### Gyan 

And a. 

#### Ratik 

Oh wow, I mean that's also quite nice of your school. 

#### Ratik 

I don't think a lot of schools will allow that. 

#### Gyan 

So this is what the teachers felt and then. 

#### Gyan 

But then the administration said that if you don't pass 11th in science, you can't go to 12th in science. And if you don't pass 11th and commerce, you can't go to 12th. 

#### Gyan 

And commerce either wow. 

#### Gyan 

So they told me to give the. 

#### Gyan 

Regular finals in with my commerce subjects and then when they held re exams for students who could not clear the main exams then I give the exams in science and. 

Speaker 1 

Right? 

#### Gyan 

Nice, yeah I took crash. 

#### Gyan 

Course is essentially in class 11th science subjects, so physics, chemistry and computer science and just just managed to scrape through and. 

#### Ratik 

That's a mess though, like I mean, I'm sure it must be not easy like doing this. 

#### Gyan 

So advice for anyone listening to this do not do this. 

#### Gyan 

I was lost all through 12th because I studied my science subjects only to pass the exam and not to understand the subject. 

#### Gyan 

So it it was a bad way to do class 12. 

#### Gyan 

And with my boards I really struggled. 

#### Gyan 

I think I didn't. I didn't do great in my board and that was largely because I didn't have that 11th base. 

#### Gyan 

I just jumped straight to 12, yeah? 

#### Ratik 

It can be a. 

#### Ratik 

Lot of stuff. 

#### Ratik 

Thrown at you if you directly pick it up in 12th. 

#### Ratik 

So what's interesting is so you want where it like the interest in tech and design come from where you like. 

#### Ratik 

I know it's like a. 

#### Ratik 

Is there's probably a different debate that you need to be creative to be working in design, but were you like a creative person already all through your life and you were like? 

#### Ratik 

Growing up or. 

#### Ratik 

How did you like? 

#### Ratik 

Discover that you were interested in doing this. 

#### Gyan 

So larger reason of why it took me so long to realize that I didn't like what I was enjoying in 11th because I wasn't doing so much. 

#### Gyan 

So studying I was really into extracurriculars. My schools computer club gigs in at Dark Brown is a great computer club. 

#### Gyan 

Shout out to examine, and so I went for a lot of. Computations interschool competitions are back in I think 10th 11th. 

#### Gyan 

I was largely making videos. So I learned after effects. So mainly because that's what there was a need for at the time, we already had enough graphic designers. 

#### Gyan 

We already had enough coders, but not enough people doing video, and that was sort of a need the club had at the time. 

#### Gyan 

So I started with video. I did motion graphics. I tried shooting my own short films. 

I made a couple of ads. 

And I want a lot of competitions backbends. 

So which gave me a lot of confidence because I felt this was something I was good at something. 

And there's a lot of positive feedback from winning competitions. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah man, I can't even begin to. 

#### Ratik 

Talk about the. 

#### Ratik 

Existence of like these computer clubs in school, at least the schools here in like, Delhi and Noida. 

#### Ratik 

They do a lot of them have these clubs and I think there are good place for you to meet like minded people and just learn from them and work on things that you want to work on. 

#### Ratik 

So that I definitely had that. 

#### Ratik 

Also with me. 

#### Ratik 

So what happened after the school is about to end and after you had like a turbulent time with signs and commerce. 

#### Ratik 

A board results what was happening around that time with you. 

#### Gyan 

So when it came to when I when I got my board result it wasn't great. 

#### Gyan 

I did not get through J emails and what everyone assumed was that I do engineering because I was good with computers. 

#### Gyan 

But so so. 

#### Gyan 

The thing is, I was good with making things with computers, so I was always interested in the more creative aspect of things I wasn't. 

#### Gyan 

I wasn't ever. 

#### Gyan 

Really, coding or doing more of the engineering side of things. 

#### Ratik 

So what did you end up then? 

#### Ratik 

Choosing finally because we have noticed a lot of the times people want to pursue different things, but there are no routes to like do that, so they end up doing engineering only if they want to. 

#### Ratik 

Work in tech. 

#### Gyan 

So I decided to engineering because that's the only thing I could figure out at the time and I got an offer. 

#### Gyan 

IT engineering at Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology, which is a College in IP University. 

#### Gyan 

And As for the first year of college, I just had this whole thing about not doing well in the boards and how I should just buckle down and study hard and get a good job. 

#### Gyan 

And at the time my parents had just just gotten a divorce and there's a lot of family pressure for me to do well and financially support the family. 

#### Gyan 

Also, and I still. 

#### Gyan 

Fairly interested in these are all these other things are doing. 

#### Gyan 

All these more creative things and I kind of slowly as just doing them as favors for people. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah, that's that's how usually how most people start. 

#### Ratik 

I guess we're just doing favors and just looking for projects and doing them, because honestly, it's it's because you like doing that stuff, and that's where you sort of seek it. 

#### Ratik 

And yeah, that completely makes sense. 

#### Ratik 

So, So what? 

#### Ratik 

I want to talk about is even in first year of college and you said that you wanted to focus on your studies because like you mentioned, that you wanted to do you want to be a good engineering student, but you are also still super interested in all these creative things? 

#### Ratik 

How did you? 

#### Ratik 

Make that into like a freelancing career or like. 

#### Ratik 

How did you manage to freelance alongside college? 

#### Ratik 

How do you start? 

#### Ratik 

I think that's what I want to ask you. 

#### Gyan 

Now back in school I worked on a lot of print magazines that because different departments in my school published magazines every. 

#### Gyan 

I've done a lot of that, so I learned how to do layouts. 

#### Gyan 

I use Microsoft publisher back then because that was the IT was. 

#### Gyan 

The one tool I knew, but slowly I kind of started doing graphics and one time my my mum friend had a restaurant and he was trying to. 

#### Gyan 

Designer logo for it. 

#### Gyan 

And so he showed me some options. 

#### Gyan 

He was working on and I told him I could. 

#### Gyan 

It maybe help him out and show him some other ideas and he really liked one of the ideas I came up with. 

#### Gyan 

And so I told him he could just take it because I didn't. 

#### Gyan 

I didn't really know this was a marketable skill, yeah. 

#### Gyan 

And so I, he said I could have a free meal at his restaurant in. 

#### Ratik 

Oh, that's good. 

#### Gyan 

And so, and so I was very proud of it. 

#### Gyan 

I posted about it on Instagram. 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, and a senior of mine from school who who's now working at Spotify as a designer he after he told me that I got cheated out of. 

#### Gyan 

I mean I had he told me that I got under paid for the work and then. 

#### Ratik 

You did not get paid. 

#### Gyan 

So I didn't get paid. 

#### Gyan 

I mean no such thing as a free meal it. 

#### Gyan 

Was a free meal. 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, yeah. 

#### Gyan 

But so so that was the first time I ever thought that I could actually charge for the work I was doing and. 

#### Ratik 

Wow, that's that's pretty cool that your senior reached out and like told you that because I don't think you would have, you probably would have realized at some point, but him telling you this might have like accelerated the process in a way. 

#### Ratik 

And so after this point you started doing more projects. 

#### Ratik 

I'm assuming and started getting like asking. 

#### Ratik 

To get paid. 

#### Gyan 

It was a. 

#### Gyan 

It was a little slow. 

#### Gyan 

I mean, I once I realized that this was the thing I could be doing, my eyes on this Facebook group called H Design. It's it's still around and it's a great resource for young designers wanting to learn more, but back then it was a much smaller community and people would sometime post about projects. 

#### Gyan 

Working on so, I just message people on Facebook and ask them if they needed some help with their logos. 

#### Gyan 

And then I quote them something like give me $25. I'll show you three options for logos and so I. 

No hold on. 

#### Gyan 

I mean I started small and because I was cheap working, cheap enough enough people responded to me and I set up a PayPal account, started randomly doing logo design without knowing. 

#### Gyan 

Anything about it for strangers on the Internet, and I was surprising how well it worked. I mean, I had a roughly 50% response rate for my cold Facebook messages and that's. 

#### Ratik 

That's really good. 

#### Ratik 

What's the? 

#### Ratik 

Story behind your transition from doing graphics work, which is like logos and branding. 

#### Ratik 

Or two more like UI and UX, where which is like design for the web and like apps I know you still do a lot of graphics work and it's like a combination of the two at this point. 

#### Ratik 

But how did you win? 

#### Ratik 

Like discover that UI UX was a thing considering you weren't going to like a design school like how was. 

#### Ratik 

That how did that happen? 

#### Gyan 

So right out of school when I joined college, my college started about a month later than most of my friends. 

#### Gyan 

So I was looking for an internship because I figured I didn't want to sit at home in the summer, wait for college to open, so I did a one month internship at this again, this was I saw this posted. 

#### Gyan 

Turn off Facebook group, but there is a internship opportunity at a. 

#### Gyan 

At an advertising studio in based out of Shampoo, Jatin, in Delhi. And so I thought it was interesting because I was mostly doing graphics at the time and I went and interviewed and they like me. And. However, the founder who himself was, I think a 2324 year old. 

#### Ratik 

OK. 

#### Gyan 

Guy from Bombay who'd been running this ad agency and then shifted to Delhi because that's where most of his clients were. 

#### Gyan 

So he said that he was also working on a startup called Surge with two of his friends and both of them were IIT engineering grads. 

#### Gyan 

And he asked me if I wanted to split my time between the startup and the ad agency because they were running out of the same office, but they were essentially two different outfits and so now I thought that sounded interesting and I decided to help them out with the startup as well. 

#### Gyan 

OK, and then that I ended up spending my entire month kind of helping the. 

#### Gyan 

Startup surge with their web product. 

#### Gyan 

So my job there was to do some user research which is the first time I had ever heard of the concept of user research. 

#### Gyan 

And then I had to design their web UI for for their engineers to build, and so this was the first time I'd really done worked on a UI project and I realized that I really enjoyed this and this was something that was more fun to me than the kind of graphics work. 

#### Gyan 

Is doing even though I don't think I made a very strong distinction at the time because I was using Illustrator for essentially everything I was doing, including the. 

#### Gyan 

The web book. 

#### Ratik 

Right, so did you have any like people who guided you here or when you were like learning things or you know? 

#### Ratik 

And that sort of thing? 

#### Gyan 

So my boss Ravi at Surg he, even though he's an engineer he he studied at IIT Kharagpur. 

#### Gyan 

But he'd read a lot of books about design and he guided me through how I should be thinking about it and. 

#### Gyan 

I think having him around having him talk to me about what he was thinking and I think then he moved on to product management himself. 

#### Gyan 

So even though he's not a designer himself, he pointed me in the right direction and so going into college I already kind of had this idea that this was something I was finding interesting and fun. 

#### Ratik 

That's so cool, man. 

#### Ratik 

Uh, like, kudos to you for taking the internship opportunity up it. 

#### Ratik 

It ended up teaching you a lot of things and it opened your eyes to the UI UX path which eventually led you to where. 

#### Ratik 

You are today. 

#### Ratik 

So before we sort of move on, I wanted to touch upon one thing that you mentioned before, which was. 

#### Ratik 

These online communities like design and how that sort of helped you progress in your freelance work. 

#### Ratik 

Because that sort of information might be valuable for somebody listening to this. 

#### Ratik 

So do you want to talk about that quickly? 

#### Gyan 

Because I didn't study design, I essentially taught myself things on the Internet. 

#### Gyan 

I read a lot of articles online, so online communities were a way to discuss work, get feedback on what you are doing, look at what other people are doing, try and help them out, and H design was a, uh, at least back then. 

#### Gyan 

Was a very active community when a fairly small community, so you kind of had the same people posting over and over. 

#### Gyan 

And there was an open community. 

#### Gyan 

Anyone can send a join request so the bridge and still do that right now. 

#### Ratik 

Goodnight 

#### Ratik 

Yeah, I'm definitely going to put the link to design below. 

#### Ratik 

Gan is actually a moderator there now, so if anybody wants to join, I think it's a pretty cool place. 

#### Ratik 

I'm I'm part of the community too, and it's a pretty active community. 

#### Ratik 

Lots of interesting stuff happening there, so if you're a new designer then yeah, check it out. 

#### Ratik 

So next week I am going to talk to you about your just freelance work. 

#### Ratik 

How do you get into it? 

#### Ratik 

I mean, how did you even manage it with college? 

#### Ratik 

Do you have any tips for people who want to start freelancing? 

#### Ratik 

Maybe like shed some light on how you went about it and I think that should be good information for people listening to this. 

#### Gyan 

I went about it in a pretty haphazard way because I didn't really know what I was doing, but there's always Internet articles that you can refer to. 

#### Gyan 

There's always resources on the Internet and I strongly believe that you can teach yourself anything on the Internet. 

#### Gyan 

But in general, I'd advise they advise people to create a portfolio of work so anything that you've done, whether it's personal projects, whether it's client work, always show it online somewhere, say on Behance or dribble, or if you can put together a website then that automatically makes you look more professional. 

#### Gyan 

And what I've done personally is write medium articles about most of my projects and then just sort of link. 

#### Gyan 

Link to them on my personal website and once you've done that then you can start reaching out to people and asking them if they need your services and you can. 

#### Gyan 

One easy way to do that is through Facebook. 

#### Gyan 

I did that back in my day on a lot of hackathon groups where young people who were starting to. 

#### Gyan 

Work on startups or had ideas where they wanted help on the design side. 

#### Gyan 

Things these days I think it's a better idea to target startup groups. 

#### Gyan 

There are a lot of Facebook groups where startup founders kind of discuss their ideas and sometimes they clearly post the need for a designer like they might post that they need help with UI UX for their app or they need a logo design sometimes. 

#### Gyan 

You can just see that it doesn't look great and maybe you could do a better job and you can pitch your services to them. 

#### Gyan 

And some general advice which I learned the hard way, is how to handle payments, yeah? 

Speaker 1 

Yeah, OK. 

#### Ratik 

I'm gonna talk about the idea going. 

#### Gyan 

And so for always make a contract and as a as a freelance designer early on, I just trusted my clients to pay me and some people are good they'll do that, but. 

#### Ratik 

Do you have like bad client stories also? 

#### Gyan 

I have so many right client stories. 

#### Ratik 

OK. 

#### Gyan 

Let's not go into those right now, but yeah, so payments yes. 

#### Gyan 

But as a general rule, create a contract and a contract doesn't have to be very complicated. 

#### Gyan 

What you essentially need to mention. 

#### Gyan 

Is the work that you will do in terms of deliverables? 

#### Gyan 

So if you're going to design A logo and and do the branding then deliverables, maybe our logo and three logo options, one finalized logo, then a branding PDF document and some business cards and letter heads for them. 

#### Gyan 

So you list all of these things down, and for larger projects it makes sense to create milestones and so your contract should clearly mention the deliverables you'll have. 

#### Gyan 

What format they'll be in. 

#### Gyan 

And all of the milestones and the payment you expect at each milestone. 

#### Gyan 

So for me, usually the first milestone is an advanced payment. 

#### Gyan 

So I take 10 to 20%, sometimes higher of the entire estimate for the project as in advance, and I only start working once. I have the advance in in my bank account because I just had. 

#### Gyan 

A lot of projects where I've put in effort and then the client is backed out, so my advice is just don't start working till the client puts their money where their mouth is. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah, that makes sense because you don't want your clients to ghost you essentially, how did you balance this while being in college like freelancing. 

#### Ratik 

And also like coursework? 

#### Gyan 

Uh, so I I realized, I think around my third year of college that engineering is not what was for me. 

#### Gyan 

And freelancing work was going well. 

#### Gyan 

Lies as already making roughly what I was expecting to make as an entry level engineer from my college. 

#### Gyan 

So my my mother was fairly OK with me doing what I wanted to do and she saw me working hard. 

#### Gyan 

And I mean I I didn't. 

#### Gyan 

I did, I kind of deprioritize college at the time, but I was still studying. 

#### Gyan 

I gave all my exams, I I skipping a few classes, but I was still managing to do last minute studying and clear, share my exams and. 

#### Ratik 

To my credit, I didn't have a single back in four years or so, that is, that is because a lot of people not doing freelance work also have backs, so it's it's pretty good that you were able to manage that. 

#### Ratik 

Wouldn't have been easy. 

#### Ratik 

A lot of hard work. 

#### Ratik 

Uh, but that's good that your mom was supporting you and I feel like our parents with this years working hard towards something, uh. 

#### Ratik 

And they see that we sort of know what we're trying to do, that they end up supporting us. 

#### Ratik 

And it's I mean, I guess apart like we're also lucky that our parents do support us in a way or your thoughts around just getting your parents to understand what the if somebody wants to talk to him. 

#### Ratik 

Talk to them about. 

#### Ratik 

The design field. 

#### Ratik 

Have any thoughts around that? 

#### Gyan 

So I I had my fair share of issues with my mother because, uh, I kind of wasn't sure if I wanted to do any. 

#### Gyan 

Measuring and I kind of wanted to take a gap year and explore my options, and especially since I did that one month internship right before college. 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, if I had had the chance. 

#### Gyan 

To do a little more of something like that, maybe do that for 3-4 months and really realize that this is what I wanted to be doing. I could have maybe avoided those four years of engineering. 

#### Gyan 

Daniel undergrad and. 

#### Gyan 

Design so I do have certain regrets and I but I understand why my mother did what she did back then. 

#### Gyan 

See if I like if I sat at home for you, right? 

#### Gyan 

Just waste time and who knows that maybe I would have wasted a lot of. 

#### Gyan 

Time, but it would have also given me time to think, so I feel like. 

#### Gyan 

If you are confused, then if you can afford to then you should just take a gap year and kind of think about things. 

#### Gyan 

Because there are a lot of fields out there and engineering is not the only option, even though that's how my mom felt. 

#### Gyan 

That's how I felt because I didn't think design was a field you could work in. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah, yeah. 

#### Ratik 

I've also been thinking about this so I have you heard about this? 

#### Ratik 

A show car does this young India fellowship thing? 

#### Gyan 

Yeah, I mean I I actually got in for the computer science and entrepreneurship program at Ashoka and I kind of wanted to go for that. 

#### Gyan 

But that was the first year. 

#### Gyan 

That was that would be their very first batch and they offered Obsidian, not a B.Tech. And the consensus seems to be that a three year program is not as valuable when you're looking for engineering jobs. 

OK. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah, so this this fellowship. 

#### Ratik 

What basically is like. 

#### Ratik 

There's something I've also been noticing a lot of my batchmates from college instead of working or studying more, they ended up going for this fellowship, which is like a one year program. 

#### Ratik 

And they basically expose you to a lot of things in the world. 

#### Ratik 

Like a lot of fields. 

#### Ratik 

So for example, for a month you study, I don't know. 

#### Ratik 

You'll see what the finance field is like and for a month you look into what I know. 

#### Ratik 

For example, design is like so that you're exposed to a lot of things because there are a lot of things now that you can do. 

#### Ratik 

And after that year when you spend there, you can actually decide what your interests are. 

#### Ratik 

So a lot of stuff is happening in the world where such opportunity opportunities are coming up, which. 

#### Ratik 

I I hope we didn't have these when we will sort of getting into college, but there's a lot of stuff out there which. 

#### Ratik 

Uh, is doing this right now. 

#### Ratik 

Now just wrapping up on college. 

#### Ratik 

When did you know that you want to actually get into design? 

#### Ratik 

Did you have like? 

#### Ratik 

I don't know. 

#### Ratik 

A moment when you thought that this is working and I. 

#### Ratik 

Should probably pursue it. 

#### Gyan 

So around my third year, as freelancing was going well and and I, I think at that point, I'd already proven to my mother that this could work as a career, so there's no longer this pressure to take college very seriously, study hard, get a job because and I also got an internship at the motto. 

#### Gyan 

I think again in my third year in the winter, so I had kind of proved that design was a feasible career and I kind of consider dropping out at the time because when I was working as a matter, they offered me a job. 

#### Gyan 

When told me not to return to college and just start working and I kind of did consider it, but I also felt that if I wanted to. 

#### Gyan 

To study further then it just made sense to finish off the remaining one 1 1/2 year of college. 

#### Gyan 

So I think by my third year I already knew I was not going to do much with my degree. 

#### Gyan 

But I also just didn't want to drop out because I felt I was able to do both things. 

#### Gyan 

So I just wanted to finish it off. 

#### Ratik 

Yeah, that makes sense. 

#### Ratik 

I mean, you've also invested so much time you do something. 

#### Ratik 

So you might as well wrap it.
