---
layout: post
title: "Web Typography "
tags: idc typography
permalink: webtype
---

I taught a hands-on workshop called *Basics of Web Typography* on 28 Jan 2020, as part of the 2D Visual Studies course for B.Des. students at IDC School of Design.

The workshop used an HTML/CSS [blog template](https://github.com/gyanl/web-starter) that students could use to set up their own GitHub pages hosted website. I am using this page to document some of the things I covered during the course.

## Aims

This presentation will cover CSS typography, and by the end of the presentation you'll have your own website.

## Presentation
Here's a link to the presentation.  
[Web Type - January 2020.pdf](https://www.dropbox.com/s/wyk6nipmbgygspe/Web%20Type%20-%20January%202020.pdf?dl=0)

## Prerequisites

**1. Sign up for Github**  
[Join GitHub](https://github.com/join)  
Use your personal email ID to create your account.   

**2. Add your IITB email as a secondary email**  
 [Add email](https://github.com/settings/emails)  
Your IITB email will give you free access to the Github Student Dev Pack.  

**3. Sign up for GitHub Student Developer Pack**  
 [Sign up for Student Dev Pack](https://education.github.com/pack/offers)  
This gives you a bunch of paid stuff for free while you are a student.  

**4. Download Atom**  
[Download Link](https://atom.io/)  
Atom is a free text editor for code.  

**5. Download Web Server for Chrome**  
[Download Link](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/web-server-for-chrome/ofhbbkphhbklhfoeikjpcbhemlocgigb?hl=en)  
This Chrome app is a quick and easy way to start a server on your computer, and allows you to test your website on your computer or any other device on your network.  

## Steps for using Github Pages to host your webiste

1. Fork https://github.com/gyanl/web-starter
2. Rename your fork of web starter to yourgithubusername.github.io.  
**For eg.** My username is gyanl, so I will rename the repository to gyanl.github.io
3. Download the repository as a zip.
4. Make changes.
5. Upload changed files, commit.
6. Your website is now live at yourgithubusername.github.io

## CSS Properties

### Font name
The font-family property specifies the font you want to use.

```
p {
  font-family: "Roboto Condensed";
}
```

### Font Stack
If the first font in the stack is not available, the second one is used and so on. It is good practice to specify 'serif' or 'sans-serif' as a fallback in case your custom font doesn't load.

```
body {
  font-family: Georgia, Times, "Times New Roman", serif;
}
```

### Font weight
The weight of the font you want to use. Typical nomenclature is:

- 100 Thin
- 200 Extra Light
- 300 Light
- 400 Normal
- 500 Medium
- 600 Semi Bold
- 700 Bold
- 800 Extra Bold
- 900 Ultra Bold

If the font family doesn't provide the requested weight, it will use the closest available one.

```
p {
  font-family: "Roboto Condensed";
  font-weight: 800;
}
```

### Font size
The size of the font you want to use.

```
p {
  font-family: "Roboto Condensed";
  font-size: 12px;
}
```

### Text alignment
Left, center, right or justify alignment.

```
.center{
  text-align: center;
}

.left{
  text-align: left;
}

.right{
  text-align: right;
}

.justify{
  text-align: justify;
}
```

### Text indentation
The text-indent property indents the first line of a text block.

```
p {
  text-indent: 50px;
}
```


### Tracking
The letter-spacing property controls the tracking between characters. It is convenient to use em as em is dependent on the current text size.

```
p {
  letter-spacing: 0.1em;
}
```

### Leading
The line-height property can be used to control the leading of the text. It is convenient to use em as em is dependent on the current text size.

```
p {
  line-height: 1.5em; //1.5 em is 150% of text size.
}
```

### Text Decoration
Add an underline, overline or strikethrough to text. You can specify the type and color of the line.

```
p {
  text-decoration: underline;
  text-decoration: underline overline wavy red;
}
```

### Text Transform
Capitalise first word, convert to upper or lowecase.

```
p {
  text-transform: capitalise;
  text-transform: uppercase;
  text-transform: lowercase;  
}
```

### Color
The color of the text in the block.

```
p {
  color: #ff4343;
}
```

### Background color
The background color of the block.

```
p {
  background-color: #ff4343;
}
```

## Pseudo classes

### :hover
Add this to a class and these rules will be activated only when the mouse pointer is hovering over the class.

```
p:hover {
  background-color: #ff4343;
}
```

### :first-letter
Affects only the first letter of the div.

```
p::first-letter {
  font-weight: bold;
  text-transform: uppercase;
}
```

### :first-line
Affects only the first line of the div.

```
p::first-line {
  font-weight: bold;
  text-transform: uppercase;
}
```

## Links
Links can be styled using the following properties

```
a:link { color: #666666; text-decoration: none; }
a:visited { color: #333333; }
a:hover { text-decoration: underline; }
a:active { color: #000000; }
```
