---
layout: post
title: Should you go for an MBA?
published: true
description:  What are the arguments in favour of and against doing an MBA? How it might help you? How it might not? and When is doing an MBA is a no-brainer? 
permalink: /mba/
---

The idea of doing an MBA has often crossed my mind. Maybe, at some point, it has crossed yours' too? 

In this post, I lay down the arguments in favour of and against doing an MBA. How it might help you? How it might not? and When is doing an MBA is a no-brainer? 

####  **How an MBA helps you?**

- **MBA helps you build a network —**  In the course of your degree, MBA might help you build a network among your peers and alumni. This network can be of huge help throughout your career.

- **MBA gives you brand recognition —**  MBA helps you differentiate yourself from others. As people recognize and trust brands, it helps you open doors that otherwise might be closed.

- **MBA paves way for new opportunities —**  MBA injects a dose of [antifragility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antifragile){:target="_blank"} into your life. This sometimes paves way for new opportunities and helps discover new passions.

- **MBA gives you a shot at geographical & sectoral mobility —** MBA provides you with an opportunity to change your work location or your sector of work. 

#### **Why you might be better off skipping MBA?**

- **MBA is costly —** Doing MBA is an expensive undertaking. The tuition alone can cost anywhere from $100,000 to $200,000. Add to it the cost of living expenses and loss of earnings (as a result of quitting your job). You are now looking at a huge hole in your bank account or a pile of debt. $200,000 buys you 12 years of [freedom](http://nomadlist.com/){:target="_blank"} sitting in front of a beach doing whatever you want. Make your choice wisely. 

- **MBA might not be the best way to build a network —** Having a network is super important. But an MBA might not be the best way to build it. [Blogging](https://andrewchen.co/professional-blogging/){:target="_blank"} is the most scalable professional networking activity. Introduction services like [Lunch Club](https://lunchclub.ai/){:target="_blank"} or [Hi Right Now](http://hirightnow.co/){:target="_blank"} are great too. In this ever digital world, there are 1000s of online communities that might be able to supercharge your career as well.

- **MBA will not help you develop hard skills —** The hard skills required to succeed in the tech-driven workplace of today are not taught at MBA schools. If you want to learn these skills, go for a specialized degree instead. You might even be able to develop these skills by doing online courses, joining a boot-camp, or picking a book on that subject.    

- **MBA is not the holy grail —** MBA is not the answer to every problem in your life. MBA in itself will not help you get a job. You still would need to work hard to get it. Post-MBA life might be a struggle too. At some point, you will need to [find your purpose](https://hbr.org/2010/07/how-will-you-measure-your-life){:target="_blank"}. MBA cannot help with that. You will need to find that yourself.  

#### **When is doing an MBA a no-brainer?**

In 2 cases doing an MBA is a no-brainer. When.. 

- **Your employer sponsors you —** This is great as you don't need to worry about the tuition or the job.   

- **Your dream job requires an MBA —**  Although few, there are still employers, especially in consulting that have a mandatory requirement for an MBA degree. You have no choice in this case.  

  
#### **In conclusion**

There are some clear benefits of doing an MBA. There are some good reasons to skip it too. In the end, it boils down to this... 

_Ask yourself. Do you have a clear sense of why you are doing an MBA? If not, do not do it._