---
layout: post
title: "Web Typography"
tags: idc
permalink: webtype
---

>Some basics of typography on the web. This presentation will cover CSS typography, and gives an easy way to make a functional blog.

### [Link to presentation](https://www.dropbox.com/s/wyk6nipmbgygspe/Web%20Type%20-%20January%202020.pdf?dl=0)

## Prerequisites

**1. Sign up for Github**<br>
<https://github.com/join>  
Use your personal email ID to create your account.

**2. Add your IITB email as a secondary email**<br> <https://github.com/settings/emails>  
Your IITB email will give you free access to the Github Student Dev Pack.

**3. Sign up for GitHub Student Developer Pack**<br> <https://education.github.com/pack/offers><br>  
This gives you a bunch of paid stuff for free while you are a student.

**4. Download Atom**<br>
[Download Link](https://github.com/join)  
Atom is a free text editor for code.

**5. Download Web Server for Chrome**<br>
[Download Link](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/web-server-for-chrome/ofhbbkphhbklhfoeikjpcbhemlocgigb?hl=en)  
This Chrome app is a quick and easy way to start a server on your computer, and allows you to test your website on your computer or any other device on your network.

## CSS Properties

### Font name
The font-family property specifies the font you want to use.

```
p {
  font-family: "Roboto Condensed";
}
```

### Font Stack
If the first font in the stack is not available, the second one is used and so on. It is good practice to specify 'serif' or 'sans-serif' as a fallback in case your custom font doesn't load.

```
body {
  font-family: Georgia, Times, "Times New Roman", serif;
}
```

### Font weight
The weight of the font you want to use.

```
p {
  font-family: "Roboto Condensed";
  font-weight: 800;
}
```

### Font size
The size of the font you want to use.

```
p {
  font-family: "Roboto Condensed";
  font-size: 12px;
}
```

### Text alignment
Left, center, right or justify alignment.

```
.center{
  text-align: center;
}

.left{
  text-align: left;
}

.right{
  text-align: right;
}

.justify{
  text-align: justify;
}
```

### Text indentation
The text-indent property indents the first line of a text block.

```
p {
  text-indent: 50px;
}
```


### Tracking
The letter-spacing property controls the spaces between characters. It is convenient to use em as em is dependent on the current text size.

```
p {
  letter-spacing: 0.1em;
}
```

### Leading
The line-height property can be used to control the leading of the text. It is convenient to use em as em is dependent on the current text size.

```
p {
  line-height: 1.5em; //1.5 em is 150% of text size.
}
```

### Color
The color of the text in the block.

```
p {
  color: #ff4343;
}
```

### Background color
The background color of the block.

```
p {
  background-color: #ff4343;
}
```

## Pseudo classes

### :hover

### :first-letter.

p::first-line {
  font-weight: bold;
  text-transform: uppercase;
}

## Links

a:link { color: #666666; text-decoration: none; }
a:visited { color: #333333; }
a:hover { text-decoration: underline; }
a:active { color: #000000; }